Eli Gadd, Michael Vassilevsky, Chet Weger
CS 181F
30 September 2012


Post Mortem


        With the submission of the final proposal for our online flashcard study tool, we concluded work on the planning and outlining phase of our CS 181F, Big Software, project. In the four weeks spent on this phase, our group learned a lot about the planning process, as we as a lot about working together. Below we will discuss each piece of this phase, highlighting what worked well for us, and what we see in retrospect could have been done better.


Concept, Competitive Research, and Preliminary Requirements
        While coming up with our concept, we experienced no issues. Once groups were assigned one day in class, we agreed to meet after the following class and to decide on a concept. Prior to that, each of us prepared a few ideas for the concept. We shared our ideas, and settled on Chet’s suggestion of a digitized flashcard system because it involved working with media that we were all interested in (web databases, websites, “cloud servers”). This form of preparation and discussion led to a quick and effective meeting.
        Competitive research offered more problems. When deciding on our concept, we imagined that this was not an entirely new product idea, but we had no idea how many similar products were available. When faced with the task of researching our competitors, we were quite simply overwhelmed. We settled on four contenders, chosen from a Google search, as the ones that we would examine. After exploring one as a group, we each took a product and examined it individually. This division of work made sense because we did not think that it would take the entire group to analyze the quality of a competitor. However, we ran into two issues with this approach. First, we failed to find many of the top competitors, relying on Google’s popularity count over actual research into which of these products are leading the market. And second, by breaking up the research without any real outline of what to look for, what we finished with was often disjoint. For example, mobile device capabilities were mentioned as a strength of one site, but were not mentioned at all in the commentary of another. We should have spent more time finding the right products to research, and then decided on what exactly we were looking for as we explored them, so as to standardize the research data that we gathered.
        To brainstorm the preliminary requirements, we held a meeting and discussed the features of the products we had researched, as well as our own intuitions about what the product would need. It was very helpful to have the research (even the poor level of it that we did) completed by this point because it gave us an idea of features that we had not previously thought of. This simple brainstorming session proved effective given the simplicity of the task, and was no doubt successful because we all had experience with flashcards before, so basic functionality was understood.


Concept Presentation, Requirement Elicitation and Result Analysis
        We believe that the concept presentation and requirement elicitation process were the most confusing and went the least smoothly of all the piece of this project. Being a process that no members of the group were familiar with, we were hesitant to begin the process without having a better understanding. We understood the process much better after seeing the example elicitation in class, but by this point, we found ourselves rushed to complete, the elicitation, requirement analysis, as well as the final steps of the project in just under a week. We believe that we could have been more prepared to run the elicitation earlier if we had met with the professor in order to learn more from him about the process.
        Also with the elicitation, we would have like to have a more diverse panel. We had four upperclassmen from Pomona and Harvey Mudd College, and one high school student, which leaves out two major potential user groups: educators and business professionals. However, this was a product of our environment and location, as well as the somewhat short notice we were working with for planning the session.
        Regarding the concept presentation, all members of the group agree that this could have been better prepared for. The minute by minute details of the opening of the elicitation were left somewhat vague, which led to some confusion as to when Chet should start his presentation. Finally, we should have met before the session to give Chet some time to practice the delivery of his presentation. While we reviewed his slides, we left the preparation of the presentation to him, which no doubt left him without important feedback.
        These things aside, we were extremely pleased with the execution of the requirement elicitation. The discussion was guided well enough to cover all of the main features that we wished to be discussed, and also covered most of the extra features we had prepared to discuss. While this discussion was much more structured than the example one seen in class, we believe that this style favored our needs. Since we considered ourselves among the potential users, we already had a basic idea of what the product would need, and thus we were able to guide the discussion towards those features that we needed user feedback on. We were able to do this without forcing too much structure on the panel, and still gained valuable insight outside of the features we had already thought of.
        The analysis of this process went somewhat smoothly, although it was unfortunately turned in one day late because of scheduling issues. This was no doubt due to the time crunch forced on us by the delayed requirement elicitation. For this deliverable, Eli prepared a draft of the summary, and then in a meeting, we reviewed the draft, made necessary critiques, and then moved on to finalize our requirement list. This document turned into an unwieldy piece due to the formatting, but given the time constraints, we were not able to reconvene and decide on a better format for delivering this material.
        Because of the quality of the information obtained from the elicitation process, we were able to effectively revise our requirements and to prioritize what we believed the users needed, as well as what would set our product apart.


Final Proposal
        Due to the time constraints and poor plan execution, the final proposal came together on the final day. While some parts of this document were difficult to complete before the requirement analysis, a draft of many of the components could have been easily prepared in advance, and would have allowed us to spend more time on the last day discussing new material from the requirement analysis. This was laid out on our management plan at the beginning of the process, but we failed to follow through with this plan.
        Time crunch aside, we found that the work we had done during the previous four weeks made the creation of the final proposal somewhat simple. We were able to pull a lot of material from previous documents, editing and rephrasing to reflect changes as needed. This limited the amount of new material that needed to be created for the document. This was not surprising, since the final proposal is a summary and synthesis of all of the work we have done so far.


Planning and Management
        From the commentary so far, it is clear that time management was an issue for much of this phase of the project. While the plan we created at the beginning was reasonably well balanced, our failure to follow in this plan clearly led to the time issues we experienced towards the end. While some of these push backs were justified and unforeseeable (such as the two dates for the preliminary requirements, which were pushed back a day each due to commitments to other classes), as we have already said, the delaying the requirement elicitation could have been prevented.
        Perhaps the greatest cause for these delays, aside from struggling with meeting times, was our lack of preparation prior to our meetings. While we typically planned to have one meeting for each rough draft, and one more to review and finalize the product, the first of these meetings almost always consisted of the actual writing of the draft. This took time away from discussion, and in general made meetings feel like wasted time for some group members. Time was spent discussing phrasing and sentences, instead of focusing on content. Those meetings in which a draft was prepared beforehand were much more productive, and often quicker. Generally, this came down to our willingness and commitment to complete work outside of the meetings, something that was definitely lacking.
        Finally, the group agreed that the distribution of work was fair for the most part. We each took leadership of three of the nine final deliverables. However, because Eli was assigned by the group to be moderator of the requirement elicitation, he, to some degree took over the leadership of this event. While the group agreed that it made sense for the moderator to have the most direct control on the preparation of that session, it would have been better had he then traded leadership of another event with Chet, so as to more fairly distribute the work. Eli also handled all communications with the professor as well as document submissions, but this was not considered a major issue with work distribution because it guaranteed no redundancy in these areas.


Education Exercise
        As an educational exercise, the group agreed that this project was largely successful. The frequency of due dates and variety of documents required simulated the software planning and outlining process accurately. While some parts of the project did feel rushed, we believe this to be only partly due to the uneven distribution of due dates, and mostly due to our own time management issues. The matching of lectures to the deliverables schedule was very helpful in preparing us for the work we would be doing, although it did make it somewhat difficult to work ahead.